Announcing Security Intelligence for Splunk — For Free February 23, 2021 •\n                

Ellen Wilson Today, we’re thrilled to announce the launch of a free 30-day trial of our integration for Splunk Enterprise and ES .

This free trial offers Splunk users full access to our high-confidence, actionable, real-time SecOps intelligence within their own Splunk environment, empowering them to make faster, more confident security decisions.

This announcement is directly related to one of our core guiding principles at Recorded Future, security intelligence is for everyone.

Security intelligence provides clear, actionable context that all security roles can use, to work smarter and amplify their impact.

Shortening the “Time to No”: Real-Time Context for Splunk For years, security operations teams have relied on SIEM technologies like Splunk to collect, correlate, and analyze security event logs from a variety of sources across their network environments.

SIEM tools were built to help teams quickly detect and respond to threats, while streamlining compliance reporting and post-incident investigation.

Yet as the attack surface grows, the abundance of security alerts puts added stress on already overworked security professionals.

If you’re like most analysts, you’re plagued by alert fatigue and you struggle to pinpoint, triage, and respond to real threats targeting your organization using only information from your internal environment.

You’re dealing with too little time and not enough information while your SIEM continues to generate thousands of security alerts each day, making it difficult to determine which alert represents a critical incident and which may just be a redundancy or a false positive.

Valuable time is wasted getting to “no” for irrelevant alerts, while true positives may be slipping through the cracks.

To effectively respond to the multitude of alerts generated each day, security operations teams need a way to prioritize which alerts to focus on first so they can optimize their effort for maximum risk reduction.

Security intelligence from Recorded Future creates clarity by adding rich context within Splunk Enterprise and ES .

Relevant insights, updated in real time, give security operations analysts the insights they need — when they need them — to make faster, more confident security decisions.

Recorded Future automates the collection, analysis, and production of security intelligence at scale to drive accelerated responses across vast amounts of data.

Using a sophisticated combination of our patented algorithm process and world-class human analysis, Recorded Future fuses the broadest range of open source, dark web, technical sources, and original research.

This results in relevant, real-time insights, integrated with Splunk to empower security operations analysts with the insights they need to accomplish the following use cases: Alert Triage : Recorded Future enriches Splunk alerts with a risk score that updates in real time and is backed by transparent evidence.

This provides the context analysts need to quickly discount false positives, identify the most significant threats, and take immediate action.

Threat Detection : Quickly identify potential threats by automatically correlating internal data with Recorded Future intelligence and risk scores.

This enables you to detect threats earlier and respond faster by adding valuable context in Splunk to internal network observables from firewall, email security, and endpoint solutions.

Relevant insights, updated in real time, and integrated out-of-the-box into Splunk give security operations teams the right information at the right time to disrupt adversaries and prevent damage to their organization.

See the power of Recorded Future for yourself by starting your free 30-day trial today!

Not a user of Splunk?

Check out Express, our free browser extension to access to our intelligence .




